you can think of your cells as the
kitchen in a busy restaurant sometimes
your body orders chicken other times it
orders steak your cells have to be able
to crank out whatever the body needs and
quickly when an order comes in the chef
looks to the cookbook your DNA for the
recipe
she then transcribes that message onto a
piece of paper called RNA and brings it
back to her countertop the ribosome
there she can translate the recipe into
a meal or for your cells a protein by
following the directions that she's
copied down but RNA does more for the
sullivan just act as a messenger between
a cook and her cookbook it can move in
Reverse and create DNA it can direct
amino acids to their targets or it can
take part in RNA interference or RNAi i
but wait why would RNA want to interfere
with itself
well sometimes a cell doesn't want to
turn all of the messenger RNA it creates
into protein or it may need to destroy
RNA injected into the cell by an
attacking virus say for example in our
cellular kitchen that someone wanted to
cancel their order or decided they
wanted chips instead of fries that's
where our nai comes in thankfully your
cells have the perfect knives for just
this kind of job when the cell finds or
produces long double-stranded RNA
molecules it chops these molecules up
with a protein aptly named
Dicer now these short snippets of RNA
are floating around in the cell and
they're picked up by something called
RISC the RNA silencing complex it's
composed of a few different proteins the
most important being slicer this is
another aptly named protein and we'll
get to why in just a second RISC strips
these small chunks of double-stranded
RNA in half using the single strand to
target matching mRNA looking for pieces
that fit together like two halves of a
sandwich when it finds the matching
piece of mRNA risks slicer protein
slices it up this cell then realizes
there are odds strangely sized pieces of
RNA floating around and destroys them
preventing the mRNA from being turned
into protein so you have double-stranded
RNA you dice it up it targets mRNA and
then that gets sliced up to voila
you've prevented expression and saved
yourself some unhappy diners so how did
anybody ever figure this out well the
process was first discovered in petunias
when botanist trying to create deep
purple blooms introduced a pigment
producing gene into the flowers but
instead of darker flowers they found
flowers with white patches and no
pigment at all instead of using the RNA
produced by the new gene to create more
pigment the flowers were actually using
it to knock down the pigment producing
pathway destroying RNA from the plants
original genes with RNA AI and leaving
them with pigment free white flowers
scientists saw similar phenomena in tiny
worms called C elegans and once they
figured out what was happening they
realized they could use RNA AI to their
advantage want to see what happens when
a certain gene is knocked out of a worm
or a fly introduce an RNA I construct
for that gene and bam no more protein
expression you can even get creative and
target that effect to certain systems
knocking down genes in just the brain or
just the liver or just the heart
figuring out what happens when you knock
down a gene in a certain system can be
an important step in figuring out what
that gene does but RNA AI isn't just for
understanding how things happen it can
also be a powerful therapeutic tool and
could be a way for us to manipulate what
is happening within our own cells
researchers have been experimenting with
using it to their advantage in medicine
including targeting RNA in tumor cells
in the hopes of turning off
cancer-causing genes in theory our
cellular kitchens could serve up an
order of cells hold the cancer
you